*Intro slide*

Welcome Mastering Backbone.js, my name is Joe Bain and I will be taking you, step by step, through backbone.js. You will see and understand the code that powers backbone. Learn how to extend it, and modify it. We are going to learn about backbone plugins, marionette, the high level application framework based on backbone as well as how best to integrate backbone with style sheets, tempklates and test systems.


*show todo app*

You should already be familiar with backbone.js, but in case you aren't, or just to remind you, this first chater is going to go over the basics. We're going to look at all the main parts, and how they are used.

This todo app is part of the todomvc project, there is a link in the description. The project aims to compare different javascript mvc frameworks by building the same, simple todo app in each of them. It's a good place to remind ourselves of the basics of a backbone app.

*models*

Backbone is well known as a pared down framework. It doesn't include code for templating or data binding, like angular or ember, for example. This makes sense, given that HTML is already a very capable and powerful display tool. The most intersting part is the model system, which I will talk about now.

*show models/Todo.js*

This is the only model in our app. It models a todo item, and the code here is very simple, but it reflects hwo powerful backbone is.

Two properties for each model are given defaults. There is another property which each of these todo items has: an order number, but this does not need to be set and because javascript is dynamic we don't need to specify it.

*toggle() function*

There is only one method in this model, which toggles the completed value. Everything else: serializing the model, binding it to our view, and saving it, is done elsewhere. The collection holds all the todos and lets us operate on them as a group. Lets have a look at that.

*show collections/todos.js*

Every collection in backbone must specify what type of thing it contains. This is done by setting the model property to the class of the item in the collection.

There are a few custom methods here, which return filtered views of the collection.

*show comparator: 'order'*

This makes sure the collection is kept in the same order each time.

*show localstorage:*

This todo app doesn't use a server, so they have used a backbone plugin for localstorage. You may be used to seeing a "url:" property instead. We'll take a look at the localstorage plugin in a later section, but it is used in the same way as a normal backbone collection.

*show views/app-view.js - clearCompleted()*

Lets look at the app view to see how the collection is used. When the user clicks the "clear completed button" this function executes and a simple underscore method is used to call the destroy method on each model. Every backbone model has a destroy method which removes it from it's parent collection and synchronises the delte with whatever data store is in use.

*show toggleAllComplete()*

toggleAllComplete shows a slightly different way of interacting with the models. This time every model is touched, each one has the completed attribute set and save is called. It is possible to call the set() method with any changed attributes, then call save after to synchronise to your storage layer, but this simplifies thigns by doing both at once.

*show createOnEnter()*

This method adds a single new todo to the collection when the user hits the enter key. `app.todos` is our colleciton and we use the create() method to add a new item. With create() we don't need to create a model seperately, the collection will create a model and also take care of setting the models collection property to point back to it.

*show newAttributes()*

This method newAttributes() creates a set of attributes for the new todo model. The title is whatever the user typed in, and the order is just an increasing number. Completed doesn't really need to be set, since we say it defaults to false anyway.

*end slide*

That's it for models and collections. You have seen how to create a basic model and store them in a collection. You have seen how views interact with collections and use models to save state to storage layers.

In the next section we're going to cover backbone views. See you then.

