[start slide]

Hello, I'm Joe Bain and welcome to mastering backbone.js, section 1.2. In this section we're going to remind ourselves of the role of views in backbone.js and how they work.

A backbone view is responsible for rendering part of the application for the user to see and interact with. Views should be small enough for us to reuse them in other places in our app, but large enough to represent a useful task or widget for the user.

[go to todo page in chrome]

In this todo app there are 2 views, the AppView, which represents the whole screen, everything on the page. And the TodoView, which represents a single item in the list. First we will look at the TodoView, then we will see how it fits into the larger AppView.

[go to todo-view.js / render()]

The heart of any view is the render method, where the widget is created. Views can insert html into the dom, or generate dom elements using broswer methods like document.createElement. We commonly use a templating library to simplify turning models into html.

[go to index.html / todo-item template]

For the todo view the HTML is defined in index.html as an underscore template. It contains a <div> wrapper, a checkbox, a label, a button to delete the item and a text input to edit the item.

[go to todo-view.js / tagName]

Views are implicitly contained within an element, the element is defined by the tagName property. In the TodoView we can see it is a <li> element. We could also define classes using the className property.

[go to todo-view.js / render()]

Looking back at the render method for the TodoView we can see it is quite simple. We generate a raw javascript object from the model, using backbone's toJSON() method. Then we pass the javascript oject through to our underscore template, which  generates an html string. This html is inserted into the dom element using jquery's html() method. The $el property is a jquery wrapped dom element, which backbone generates for every view.

After this most of the work has been done, we just need to update some classes so the view matches the current state of the model.

[go to todo-view.js / events]

To handle user input views can also define an event map. This maps interaction events to methods in the class. We can respond to clicks, touches, form changes, keyboard input and other ui events. The todo app responds to clicks on different elements, as well as keyboard input and focus changes.

[pause]

The other way of using backbone views is to act on html already on the page. Lets look at the AppView, which does this.

[go to app-view.js / el]

The App View specifies an el property, rather than a tagName, which tells backbone to look for an existing element on the page.

[go to app-view.js / render()]

Because of this the render method does not generate html, it only modifies the existing document by showing and hiding some elements, and updating others.

[go to app-view.js / initialize()]

In order to keep a view in sync with changes to models and collections we can subscribe to events in the initialize() method. The AppView responds to the collection when items are added or removed.

[go to app-view.js / addOne()]

In the addOne() method we can see a new todo view is created based on the new model, and then its el is appended to the dom.

[end slide]

Now we've seen how views can generate html, how larger views can wrap existing html and how small views can be used inside larger ones. You should be up to speed on backbone views now. In the next section we will look at the backbone event system and the backbone router.
