*start slide*

Hi, welcome to section 1.3 of Mastering Backbone.js. This section covers routers and the backbone event system. You have probably alrready used these, so I'm just going to remind you of how they work, and how they are used.

As before we are using the todo app from todo mvc to demonstrate the principles.

*show router/router.js*

A router, in backbone, handles all the url's in your app. In the old days these would be seperate pages on the server, but now with single page apps and more browsers which support the html5 history api's for setting the vurrent page url, we can manage all our "pages" on the front end.

This app has a very simple router, since it doesn't do a whole lot. The main thing our router has is this routes property. This specifies all the available urls for the app, in this case we only have one. The star means the route will match any url, with any number of slashes or other characters. This means that all url changes will affect the current filter.

The setFilter() method sets the value in the url to be the current filter for the app and then triggers the todo collection `filter` event.



This brings us to the event system. Every backbone class extends from backbone.events. In a way backbone.events is my favourite part of backbone because it allows us to program in an event driven way, which is really powerful, and not easy with vanilla javascript.

*show views/app-view.js*

When an event is triggered any other object which has a reference to the object which is triggering can be listening and potentially react. In this case the app view responds to the event the router triggered.

As we saw in the last section, the app view subscribes to events from the collection in its initialize method. 'add', 'reset' and 'change' are backbone built in events which are fired respectively when an item is added, when the collection is reset (which is usually when it first loads) and when one of the models in the collection changes. For this change event we have also specified that we only care when the completed property is changed.

The custom filter event is being listened to here, and last is the `all` event, which is a special event which is triggered whenever any other event is triggered.

*show filterAll()*

When the filter event is triggerd the app view actually just triggers another event on each of the models. The 'visible' event. This is common in backbone apps, and we can sometimes end up with quite long event chains, which can be a bit hard to follow. So we need to be carful we don't let them get too long.

*show views/todo-view.js*

The `visible` event on the todo model is listened to by the todo item view. This causes the view to adjust it's visibility based on the state of the model. It is always a good idea when an event fires to update your view based on the model, and not on the type or contents of the event. Since many events can happen at once, it is always best to keep a single source of the truth, let that be your model.

*end slide*

That ends our tour of the backbone router and event system. You've seen how a simple router is written, and what its purpose is. You've also had a look at how events work and how they can be used. That's the end of the backbone overview. Next is section 2, which is where we begin to delve into backbone, learning how to override and extend internal methods and how to use and create plugins.


