*show start slide*

Hi, welcome to part 2 section 1 of Mastering Backbone.js. In this section we are going to look at how you can extend backbone.js by overiding methods. We are going to base our examples around a music jukebox app which we will be extending over the course of this series.

*go to mzzzk local homepage*

First lets introduce the music app. The app is called Mzzzk and has been written alongside this course. The code is available open-source on github. There are links in the description for the relavant code for each sections examples. This music app will serve mp3s from a directory and allow you to play them back through a web interface. We don't want to worry about the backend too much, as this tutorial is about backbone, but there are a couple of things we need to cover. If you want to try out the app for yourself and look at the code in use you can follow the instructions on github to get it set up.

*go to couchdb homepage*

The app is going to use couchdb, which is a no-sql database with a built in json based http-api. This is perfect for us because it means we don't have to create a complicated backend server, we can use couchdb straight away. It also provides our first oppurtuniy for extending backbone.

The Couchdb API works a little differently from how backbone expects APIs to work normally. Lets take a look at a typical response.

*show DHC - http tester*

I'm using a chrome extension called DHC to mess around with different APIs. This is a typical call to couchdb, which returns a list of songs, ordered by artist. I've also limited to 10 results to make it easier to see.

*show results*

There are a couple of things we need to change in our model and collection, the first is the data is surrounded by an object, backbone wants just the stuff inside 'rows'. The second is for each model we only want the doc attribute.

*go to songs.js collection*

I've got a normal backbone collection here and we're going to change a few details to make it work with couchdb.

*begin typing*

First we need to set the url to the full url including port number of the database.

Then we need to override parse, this method is called before the HTTP response is turned into a collection. We can extract the 'rows' data here.

*go to song.js model*

We need to make some similar changes to the model.

*begin typing*

Couchdb uses an underscore-id property for the id of each model, so we can tell backbone to use that by setting the idAttribute property. For the model we also need to override parse because we only want the 'doc' part of each model in the response.

*go to mzzzk app*

We can now see a list of the songs, straight out of couchdb. We also want to be able update details for the songs and delete them. So far our models only support fetching, but not the other CRUD operations.

*show end slide*

So you've seen how to adapt models and collections to use non-standard API's and also learnt a little bit about couchdb.

In the next part we are going to override Backbone.sync so we can update the models in the database. And in the last part of this section we will make our changes into a plugin so we can use them for any couchdb models and collections.
