*show start slide*

Hi, and welcome to part 2, section 2 of Mastering Backbone.js. In this section we will finish adapting our models and collections to work with couchdb. We are going to see how to override the backbone sync method to support sync data with non-standard data sources.

*show mzzzk app in progress*

We have the list of songs here, and we want to allow changes to be saved back to the database. Let's have a look at what happens by default if we change something on one of these models.

*show network tab of inspector and app side-by-side*

*edit song title, hit save*

*show request made by backbone*

As you can see, backbone makes a put request to the same url that we fetched from. In couchdb we need to send updates to a different url.

*show code for the model*

*start typing*

We use the url method to give the correct url for our couchdb resource.

*adding "if (method === "delete")" code*

We also need to override the sync method to deal with some other issues. When we delete a document in couchdb we need to pass the revision paramater. So we can supply that here.

*adding success wrapper*

The revision id will change every time we update the document, so we need to make sure it is updated after the song metadata is updated.

*show mzzzk app*

Now we can see editing and deleting models works.

Now we have this model and collection adapted for mongodb it would be good to be able to reuse them for other types. Lets make some new classes. We'll start with CouchCollection.

*show new file and paste in the Songs collection code*

*writing new url function which combines three properties*

First we can remove the model property and change the name. The parse function is the same, but we need a way get the url, as this can vary a lot for different database designs. We will split it into two parts, we want to be able to supply the host, the database name and the view path seperately. This will help with our couch model too.

*show new file and paste in the Song model code*

Now lets create our CouchModel.

*show adapting url function*

Most of the song code is not specific to our song model. The only piece we need to change is the URL, which actually we can get from the collection. This is usually how backbone models get their url, so it fits in with the backbone philosophy.

*switch to song model*

Now we can use our couch model in the song model.

*switch to songs collection*

And the same for our collection.

*show mzzzk app*

And we can see the app is still working, now we could add more models based on our database, which we will do later on.

*show end slide*

So here you've seen how to override backbone methods to extend and alter the functionality of models and collections. We've also seen how to generalise those changes so we can reuse them. In the next section we'll see how to package our changes into a backbone plugin which can be published online and used by people around the world.
