Hi, and welcome to part 2, section 3 of mastering backbone.js. In this section you will see how to package a set of backbone extensions that we created in the last section. We can then publish the extension to backplug.io, the backbone extension repository.

*show backplug.io*

You may have used backbone extensions already, if so you have probably seen backplug, which is a collection of backbone extensions. I will show you how to package a backbone extension and publish it.

*go to terminal, create new directory and git repo*

For a backbone plugin we need to have a separate git repository. So lets create one.

*open new file couchback.js*

We are going to take the couch collection and the couch model we created in the last part and put them in a single file. We also want to add them to the Backbone namespace.

*copy code from couch-model and couch-collection*

In our app we keep everything in seperate files and use node-style require's and exports. Because we want this plugin to be useable on the we as well as in other javascript module systems like AMD we will use a universal module descriptor. You can see a link to the UMD website in the description. We can use a build system to concatenate our model and collection and wrap them in a UMD, but for this example we will author it manually.

*paste in UMD wrapper*

*edit the model and collection to be inside the wrapper*

I have copied this wrapper from Marionette, a popular backbone extension. We can mostly reuse it. We can remove the undescore dependency. We are going to make our extension available as Backbone.Couch. We'll also make it available globally as "CouchBack".

*add backbone as a depedency*

We also can add here backbone as a dependency.

*show readme*

We also need to write a readme, as well as manifest files for the various packaging systems. We want to support bower and npm. You can see the finished result at github.com/joebain/couchback.

For instructions on how to publish to npm and bower see their websites.

If you want a plugin registered on backplug.io you need to tweet at the @backplug. This plugin hasn't really been tested much and there is already another couch db backbone plugin so we'll leave it for now.

*go songs.js*

We can now require our extension and remove the couch-collection reference. We will do the same for the model and then we can delete those files.

*go to terminal, type "npm i --save joebain/couchback"*

Even though this plugin is not publised on npm or bower we can require it with npm just by specifying the github repository. You can require any git repo with npm, not just github.

*end slide*

That's the end of this section. We have learnt how to package and release a backbone plugin and how to use it inside of an app. That's also the end of this part of the tutorial. The next part, part 3, will focus on application architecture. Covering use effective use of router, state objects and events.
