Hi,

Welcome to section 5.1 where we will cover backbone.model. In this section you will see some of the backbone.model source code, we will see how it works in a real application, and you should understand the main components and how they fit tigether by the end.

For our example we are using a Todo app from Todomvc.

It's a very simple app where you can add and remove todo items [show]

The app has one model: a Todo, this should look familiar. [show]

First I'll show you the constructor for Backbone.Model. We'll set a breakpoint and then enter a new todo item.

	explain the constructor - debug through
	 - the constructor is the same as the one your model uses
	 - models have a unique "cid"
	 - this.attributes - where get() and set() look
	 - link to a collection
	 - default attributes - if you have defaults:{} set on your class the mdoel will pick up defaults
	 - set the attributes
	 - call your "constructor"

Now let me briefly show you the rest of the Backbone.Model source. As you can see, there are plenty of comments, it's a very politely written code base.

	- extends events - most backbone things have events and so extend the events class

	- many methods just call through to underscore
	  - toJSON() and escape()

	- fetch(), save() and destroy() really just pass through to Backbone.sync
	  - some argument mashing
	  - save sets and validates too

	- sync() goes through to Backbone.sync() - cover this later

	- has() and get() are pretty simple operations on this.attributes

Set() is the longest and most complicated method in Backbone.Model, so lets debug through that and see what it does.

First we prepare the arguments, setting any defaults. We call the model's validation method, and we set up some variables.

Here we set a member variable, this._previousAttributes, to the state of the model before any changes where made. This is so any event handlers can see what has changed and respond efficiently to the changes.

It is possible for our changes to trigger more changes on the same model, and backbone deals with nested calls to set() efficiently.

Now in this loop our changes are pushed into a changes array and the previous attributes are updated. We make sure only attributes which are different are actually changed.

On this line the internal state of the model is updated.

Here the individual change events are triggered for the model.

Backbone tries not to trigger too many change events. So if this a nested call to set we exit here. Otherwise we go on to trigger the general change event for the model.

If this change event causes any more calls to set then we will have to fire more change events, which is why there is a loop. Once all the change events are fired we are done.

You can now see the view has updated.



	- set() is more involved - lets walk through it
	  - shuffling the params around
	  - options.unset - this.unset() uses set(), by passing unset: true in the options
	  - this._changing
		- _ for privacy
		- multiple sets might overlap so only change this._previousAttributes if something else isn't already changing
		- this._previousAttributes is passed to any change event handler and also used by Model.getPrevious() to see what change a handler is responding to.
	  - this.idAttribute is treated differently - because it is stroed directly on the model as well as in this.attributes
	  - then update the attributes
	  - keep this.changed up to date
		- only stuff which is different from the value in this.previousAttributes is recorded in this.changed
	  - then go through the changes and trigger individual change events
	  - lastly trigger a change event for the whole object
 

So now you should have a feel for the internals of Backbone.Model. You should be comfortable debugging through your own models and in the rest of this section we're going to learn how to modify and extend Backbone.Model to create our own custom Model types.

